Develop RAM 1-pager (#47)
alan-turing-institute/research-application-management: docs/project_ram/RAM_1pager.md

# Research Application Management
## Developing research outputs for real-world problem solving while ensuring openness and reproducibility

> Research Application Managers (RAMs) focus on the sustainability and impact of research, guiding the development and use of research outputs for a broad set of stakeholders. The [role of a RAM](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/research-infrastructure-roles/ram.html) was created at the Turing to help fill the gaps between purely academic knowledge generation and the work that is required to create and maintain user-friendly tools that can be used to address questions beyond the scope of the original research field. RAM engagements can begin at any time in the project lifecycle, and we encourage researchers to reach out to the RAM team as early as possible so that we can incorporate the user perspective and consider possible applications in the development of research outputs. 

Reviewer: "user-friendly tools that can be **deployed**"

![image](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management/assets/5104098/108b7fc9-4b1a-4325-964f-b19561e89f28)

## What skills do RAMs bring to research teams?

RAMs think [beyond the research project cycle](https://journal.trialanderror.org/pub/manifesto-rewarding-recognizing/release/1), creating opportunities to reuse and reproduce research outputs in new real-world applications. At the Turing, RAMs bring product development and stakeholder engagement skills to research teams and cultivate a practice of open collaboration, encouraging interconnectedness of research within the Institute and beyond.

As a team, we develop and deliver a range of stakeholder-related activities including:
* Stakeholder mapping
* Requirements gathering & alignment
* User-centred design
* Research output development roadmapping

> * Workshop delivery

Author: The idea is that if the page is for a high-level, skimmable overview of RAMs but if people want to learn more they can click on links (e.g. TTW chapter that delves more deeply into each activity.)

I really like the framing you've suggested of "end-to-end stakeholder engagement strategy" though and then going into the list of individual bits

Learn more about our work and access our tools and insights [here](https://the-turing-way.netlify.app/collaboration/stakeholder-engagement.html).

## What makes for an impactful RAM engagement?

We consider multiple dimensions of a research project and team to prioritise engagement across Turing's research projects:
* **Applicability**: How much potential does a research project have for real-world use?
* **Capability**: To what extent does the team have the skills to translate their research to real-world use?
* **Values**: How much does the team's approach to research align with our focus areas (e.g. interoperable open source tools, interdisciplinary collaboration, participatory co-creation)
* **Practices**: How ready are the team to adopt RAM ways of working?

>  

Reviewer 2: We should highlight here that we look for high applicability, values and practices, and low capability (there is a way to phrase this so it sounds good, e.g. lower scores on capability suggest the project could hugely benefit from having a RAM on the team)

Author: I agree that's how we'll use it but I'm not sure we want to publicise this on this page... could we get Simon's feedback on this?

> ![RAM rhombus-Simple diagram drawio](https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/research-application-management/assets/5104098/19d17aff-5caa-441f-8703-1497553b1ab3)

Reviewer 2: We should maybe rename this to something more slick? Idk

Reviewer 2: And maybe highlight in the diagram the different levels (high for applicability, practices, values, low for capabilities).

We should maybe also source where we got that idea from, though that might be for a longer report

Author: Yep, agree on expanding on the [INSERT SNAZZY NAME HERE] on a longer paper/report that we can link to here!

> * **Practices**: How ready are the team to adopt RAM ways of working?

Reviewer: "how ready **is** the team"

## Examples of our work

> * Open sourcing the [Data Safe Haven](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/data-safe-havens-cloud) and creating [national standards and communuity for Trusted Research environments](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Open sourcing the [Data Safe Haven](https://www.turing.ac.uk/research/research-projects/data-safe-havens-cloud), bringing the community together to co-create [a reference TRE architecture](https://github.com/sa-tre/satre-specification) and creating a [national community for Trusted Research Environments](https://github.com/uk-tre/website)
```

* Integrating A/B street for [use in a Bristol City Council public consultation tool](https://www.turing.ac.uk/blog/street-smart-putting-neighbourhood-design-hands-bristol-residents) to empower residents to design and assess street-level interventions in their neighbourhoods
* Delivering cross-sector workshops with government and industry stakeholders in 'Health' and 'Autonomy' fields on behalf of the [AI Standards Hub](https://aistandardshub.org/)
* Creating [PitchFest at AI UK](https://www.turing.ac.uk/pitchfest-share-your-research-world) to upskill Early Career Researchers to communicate the impact of their research to a public audience
* Co-authoring public-facing whitepapers on Turing's [Environment & Sustainability](https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/publications/tackling-climate-change-data-science-and-ai) and [Digital Twins](https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/publications/towards-ecosystems-connected-digital-twins-address-global-challenges) research

> 

Reviewer 2: I wonder if there's a way to frame this stuff in a bit more of a narrative... not sure what this is yet but think it can read in a bit more of a 'AWESOME' way

> * Creating [PitchFest at AI UK](https://www.turing.ac.uk/pitchfest-share-your-research-world) to upskill Early Career Researchers to communicate the impact of their research to a public audience

Reviewer: how about linking to this post from after pitchfest? https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/first-pitchfest-winner-announced-ai-uk-2023
or we could link to the video on YouTube

## Get in Touch

> RAM engagements can begin at any time in the project lifecycle, and we encourage researchers to reach out to the RAM team as early as possible so that we can incorporate the user perspective and consider possible applications in the development of research outputs. To learn more about RAMs or how to apply RAM methodologies in your research project, get in touch with our team at RAM@turing.ac.uk.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to highlight that earlier is better stronger? E.g. RAMs can come in whenever but we recommend embedding them in the research team from the very beginning if possible

| Focus area | Rationale | Example activities |
| ---------- | --------- | ------------------ |
| End-to-end engagement and co-creation | Ensuring that all impacted and involved people, particularly end-users, are identified early, brought into the research project and actively considered when shaping outputs | Stakeholder mapping; stakeholder engagement pipelines; organising; facilitating and managing engagement activities; translating engagement activities into research questions |
| Usability and accessiblity of research outputs | Ensuring anybody who wants to engage in the research outputs can | Writing cleaner, easier to understand code; creating documentation, guides and educational resources to support core research outputs; open-sourcing research (where possible) |
| Effective project strategy | Prioritising work to practically realise as much potential as possible from limited resources, funds and time | Creating a team strategy and roadmap; identifying sustainability options after funding windows end; identifying and implementing a critical path to success |

> Most importantly, a key quality of RAMs is flexibility, as there is no one-size-fits-all approach to delivering impact for research project teams. A big part of the RAM role is identifying the most suitable pathway to impact for any particular project team, and leading on the implementation of that pathway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most importantly, a key quality of RAMs is flexibility, as there is no one-size-fits-all approach to delivering impact for research project teams. Some activities above will be useful to project teams, some won't, and some are as of yet undefined. A big part of the RAM role is identifying the most suitable pathway to impact for any particular project team, and leading on the implementation of that pathway.
```

Reviewer 2: This is from a convo with @f-rower... I think we should have some explicit wording saying 'we don't know what the answer to impact for ur research project is, but we're here to try and figure it out'. Adding it as a suggestion so you can see the difference (couldn't quite convince it def should be added). Happy to have a discussion about it!
